Hello And Welcome to my Walk-through for the PiHole project! Now I am sure you're wondering what the point of this is,
as there are already a large amount of documentation online for this project. Well I recently completed this project
(sort of) and wanted to try and save anyone some time with some troubleshooting that I had to do so if you see something
EXCLAIMED please pay special attention.

1. BEFORE HAND(IMPORTANT)
  A.Pre-checks before starting
    So for this project I really(x3) recomend you check your ISP availability to change your dhcp/dns settings. I did not
    check this and made it to the very last step only to learn that XFinity does not allow for you to change this information
    on your own. Thus negating all 8ish hours of project time and troubleshooting i did.
  
    Next thing to check is whether or not your pi has wifi capabilities. You can do this by checking the product info, but 
    honestly I was useing a w1.1 which i understand is one of the oldest models and it did have capabilites so likely your
    all good. Also it's a good idea to have at least a monitor so that if you get a lil out of sorts you can see what the pi
    is complaining about.
  
  B.What you need physically
    So as i understand it, raspberry pi's need to be flashed usually utilizing an sd card. They flash on first reset after
    inserting the card, but i'll talk on that later. So you need something to be able to read/write to an sd card. If you're
    looking for exactly the one i used the link is below. 
      
    https://www.amazon.com/Aluminum-Adapter-Computer-Devices-Compatible/dp/B0FJB84N94/ref=sr_1_1_sspa?c=ts&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.H5IKRjDRVYaCKNz_1AX2LcKn9hiLBC6LkUgo1WVJ6HgxeT_lZMG-M1rGpWvet9rHqAd4qhTFQIB8v87EHNrJbb4e-vYDNnJGQNJTbEWMckOPu0s0x1gvhLcdaOw6-0vxNapqZK4UaxwFSHy29mcfGkETtpNc66CZqVGxANNeWWvQcOX4o5TJIqjU1G_eMdUFN_S2cd0bLG4G-v3qgJXqETW1G9F-vQ-KkHsyY-5QoxyUBSYe_BPyfnWMhsT3huF5QeHANJlONw6o8rz1CpcUYePLfZO0JEokhrKLLd3pGMk.g8gNiZMrono_k8BJ9rv2tQ8r6bnCxobXMn-zTUfd4Q0&dib_tag=se&keywords=Computer+Memory+Card+Adapters&qid=1761934191&s=pc&sr=1-1-spons&ts_id=15874201&sp_csd=d2lkZ2V0TmFtZT1zcF9hdGY&psc=1

    You'll also need a device that's able to connect to the internet to be able to download a few helpful installers. Below is the
    itemized list.
      1. SD card adapter
      2. Device able to connect to internet and previous adapter
      3. Monitor and connection for that monitor (optional, but do it man frfr)
  
2.Getting into it
  A. First thing you need is the raspberry pi imager for the flash. This also takes some time to flash and verify so get on this
     ASAP. 
      
      https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/

      So once you have the imager downloaded, you should have your sd card inserted into your computer of choice, and running
      said imager. The program should be asking you what type of os you would like to use. I used the raspberry pi lite headless
      as it is not too resources intensive and the more local mem you can give the pi the better. Seems like the lite is a less
      used model so you can find it under the more section for the os. After you input the beginning stuf and click next you
      should get a prompt that asks if you would like to implement some settings or just do the bare install.

      YOU SAY YES! edit those settings so we don't have to add files yourself. but if you don't want to ill explain how to do that too


      IMPORTANT! If you input the wrong settings before flashing you'll have to re-flash, so it's worth it to slow down and make
                sure you have everything right the first time.
          
        a. If you said yes these are the things you need to change
          1.SSH on
          2.WIFI credentials
            Make sure the password and ssid is correct as it is case sensitive and if you mess up
            on this part after flashing 
            -if your ssid is hidden there should be an option to indicate this.
          3.Login Credentials
            -Put in a username you'll remmber and a basic password. This is for the ssh section where we'll be connecting to the 
              pi over the network to ensure its working all good. 
          4.Pi name change(optional)
            - feel free if you like, it'll come into play for the ssh section and also on your network list.

        b. If you're a stickler for not using software you need to make two files. The NAMES of these files are real important for 
            the flashing so here's a description of 'em and you should be able to pull both from this repository. THey need to be
            under the "boot" file set. That is to say when you put the card back in the reader after flashing you should see a 
            
          1.SSH
            -completly empty and you should see it dissapear after flashing, this is just telling the board to turn on ssh
              capabilities.
          2. wpa_supplicant.conf
            -You'll need to replace the ssid with your wifi network name as well as the psk with the password/passkey. These are 
             case sensitive.
            -If you're outside the US that will also need to be changed. 
          
        c. If it didn't work my suggestion would be to first connect your pi to a monitor and see if it's telling you anything.
           If nothing is out of the ordinary it should be displaying a ip address. If that address is 127.whatever.whatever that 
           means it did not connect correctly to the network(it should say 10.whatever.whatever.whatever). Unfortunatly you will 
           have to restart and re-flash. If you tried the  method of using the imager to set the settings I would double check you 
           input all the info correct and try again with it aleast as single more time before attempting to make the files yourself.
           If you tried with the files the first time check out the imager settings.

  B. Alright so if this all worked out you should be able to see your pi on the network. You should be able to confirm this by 
     checking your routers info. 
        
          a.You can do this by going to http://10.0.0.1. there you should be able to login with admin and 
            password in the username and password fields respectively(unless you changed this in which case it's your login).

          b.Navigate to your connected devices or network connections list. You should see your raspberry pi there under your chosen 
            name,default is raspberrypi.
                -small note some raspberry pi's can only connect to 2.4gHz networks so double check you have capabilities to conenct to.
          
          c.You should be able to see it's given ip address. Open a cmd window on your pc and go ahead and type ping "theRaspberryPi'sIP"
            but without the quotations. 

          d.Assuming that your pi is viewable, you'll need to set a static ip for the board. We are going to be senging info regularly
            to the pi so we don't want our router dynamically assigning  it's ip and getting confused. this process is different for every isp 
            so you'll likely need to do some pokeing around on your own or ask chatgpt or what have you. Likely it will be in the device  
            info for the actual pi. 
          
          e.Next step is to SSH into the board.
              -In a cmd window
              -If you entered credentials in the imager you will use the cmd
                  ssh your_username@raspberrypi.local

              -If not you should have default so Username: pi -> Password:raspberry

              -If those fail try the following
                  ssh pi@raspberry.local
                  ssh admin@raspberrypi.local
                  ssh your_username@RaspberryPi'sIPAddress


          f.Once you're ssh connects you should see a change in the path displayed when you are typing commands (thats the words on the left 
            when youre typing in the cmd window). Next you need to install the pi hole so run.
              curl -sSL https://install.pi-hole.net | sudo bash

          g.This should install the packages and likely bring up a window asking about various configuration settings. If you want to know 
            about the various options for configuration there should be links on each page describing the changes. If you're not feeling it 
            there's nothing wrong with just doing all the suggested.   

    C. Final step is to re-route the queries to your pi by making it the primary dns receiver. Unfortunatly, this is also very based on ISP
       but you'll be around the same page as you were in earlier chacking for your raspberry pi's connection and setting its static ip.
       If you made it this far congratu-raisins you made it at least as far as I. After working useing chatgpt and online resources for what
       I guestimate around 6-8 hours and after informing chatgpt that I had Xfinity as an ISP around hour 2, it didn't feel the need to inform me
       that you actually can't complete this step till I got to the last step and was unable to find the info. Unfortunatly no server for me, but
       my hope is this guide saved you some of my pain.

